Build a backend plugin data source updates (#50)
grafana/tutorials: content/tutorials/build-a-data-source-backend-plugin.md

{{< /tutorials/step >}}
{{< tutorials/step title="Create a new plugin" >}}

To build a backend for your data source plugin, Grafana requires a binary that it can execute when it loads the plugin during start-up. In this guide, we will build a binary using the [Grafana plugin SDK for Go](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/backend/grafana-plugin-sdk-for-go/).

The easiest way to get started is to clone one of our test data datasources. Navigate to the plugin folder that you configured in step 1 and type:

```
npx @grafana/toolkit@next plugin:create my-plugin
```

> Select _Backend Datasource Plugin_ and follow the rest of the steps in the plugin scaffolding command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select **Backend Datasource Plugin** and follow the rest of the steps in the plugin scaffolding command.
```

```bash
cd my-plugin
```

Install frontend dependencies and build frontend parts of the plugin to _dist_ directory:

```bash
yarn install
yarn build
```

Run the following to update [Grafana plugin SDK for Go](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/backend/grafana-plugin-sdk-for-go/) dependency to the latest minor version:

```bash
go get -u github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-sdk-go
```

Build backend plugin binaries for Linux, Windows and Darwin to _dist_ directory:

```bash
mage -v
```

> Now, lets verify that the plugin you've built so far can be used in Grafana when creating a new data source:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, let's verify that the plugin you've built so far can be used in Grafana when creating a new data source:
```

1. Restart your Grafana instance.
1. Open Grafana in your web browser.

> 1. Navigate via the sidemenu to Configuration -> Data Sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate via the side-menu to Configuration -> Data Sources.
```

> 1. Navigate via the side-menu to Configuration -> Data Sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate via the side-menu to **Configuration** -> **Data Sources**.
```

> 1. Click on _Add data source_ button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click on the _Add data source_ button.
```

1. Find your newly created plugin and select it.

> 1. Enter a suitable name and then click the _Save & Test_ button (ignores any errors reported for now).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter a name and then click **Save & Test** (ignore any errors reported for now).
```

> You should now have created a data source instance of your plugin and should be ready to use it in a dashboard:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point you should have a newly created data source instance of your plugin, and it should be ready to use it in a dashboard:
```

> You should now have created a data source instance of your plugin and should be ready to use it in a dashboard:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point you should have a newly created data source instance of your plugin, and it should be ready to use in a dashboard:
```

> 1. Navigate via the sidemenu to Create -> Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate via the side-menu to Create -> Dashboard.
```

> 1. Navigate via the side-menu to Create -> Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate via the side-menu to **Create** -> **Dashboard**.
```

> 1. Click on _Add new panel_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add new panel**.
```

> 1. In the query tab, select the data source you created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the query tab, select the data source you just created.
```

> 1. You should now see a line graph rendered with one series consisting of two data points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A line graph is rendered with one series consisting of two data points.
```

1. Restart your Grafana instance.
1. Open Grafana in your web browser.
1. Navigate via the side-menu to Configuration -> Data Sources.

> 1. Click on the _Add data source_ button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add data source**.
```

Use bold when referencing UI elements.

1. Find your newly created plugin and select it.
1. Enter a suitable name and then click the _Save & Test_ button (ignores any errors reported for now).

> At this point you should have a newly created data source instance of your plugin, and it should be ready to use in a dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have a new data source instance of your plugin that is ready to use in a dashboard:
```

Avoid using "should" in documentation.

{{< tutorials/step title="Add support for health checks" >}}

Implementing the health check handler allows Grafana to verify that a data source has been configured correctly.

> When editing a data source in Grafana's UI, you can click the _Save & Test_ button to verify that it works as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When editing a data source in Grafana's UI, you can **Save & Test** to verify that it works as expected.
```

In this sample data source, there is a 50% chance that the health check will be successful. Make sure to return appropriate error messages to
the users, informing them about what is misconfigured in the data source.

> Open `/pkg/sample-plugin.go`. In this file you will see the `SampleDatasource` struct also implements the [backend.CheckHealthHandler](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-sdk-go/backend?tab=doc#CheckHealthHandler) interface. Navigate to the `CheckHealth` method to see how the health check for this sample plugin is implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open `/pkg/sample-plugin.go`. In this file you'll see that the `SampleDatasource` struct also implements the [backend.CheckHealthHandler](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-sdk-go/backend?tab=doc#CheckHealthHandler) interface. Navigate to the `CheckHealth` method to see how the health check for this sample plugin is implemented.
```

{{< /tutorials/step >}}
{{< tutorials/step title="Enable Grafana Alerting" >}}

1. Open _src/plugin.json_.

> 1. Add the top level _backend_ property with a value of _true_ to specify that your plugin supports Grafana Alerting, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the top level `backend` property with a value of `true` to specify that your plugin supports Grafana Alerting, e.g.
```
